An analytics workspace where the AI agent does the whole analysis without ever seeing your data. It stays in DuckDB in your tab; WebMCP tools return only aggregates. Raw rows need your approval. Like 1 Comment Story Updates When the agent needs specific rows, you see why, SQL, and the exact preview. You choose what to release - or say no. Nothing auto-approves Airlock: AI analytics in your browser. Data stays in the tab. The counter shows how many values you actually released — starting at zero. One click runs a full gender pay-gap review: charts in the shared notebook, every tool call in the audit log. Aggregates only — no raw rows. The agent tries to pull individual rows. Blocked by default. run_query only returns grouped results — not a setting you forgot to turn on. Turn off raw row requests: the tool is crossed out and gone from the agent's list. Permission is capability control - not a polite error msg Full story: ~7% gap within grade, not ~20% headline. Then a controlled release - only the columns you approved, counted on screen. Inspiration Analysts sit on payroll files, patient extracts, and transaction logs they cannot paste into ChatGPT . The barrier is policy, not preference. Until WebMCP, the browser had no way to offer AI help without an upload. What it does Airlock is a local-first analytics workspace. Your file loads into DuckDB in the tab and never leaves the device . An AI agent works through 14 WebMCP tools — profiling, guarded SQL, charts, findings — and returns aggregates, not rows. When individual values are truly needed, the agent must ask in writing. You see the SQL, the preview, and the cell count before you approve. A header counter tracks every value that crossed the boundary . One click runs a full gender pay-gap demo: Headline gap ~20% Within-grade gap ~7% Cells released: 0 Try it: live demo · source on GitHub Why WebMCP is the only way to build this A remote MCP server cannot read a file that never left the browser. Uploading defeats the purpose. Screen-reading agents see every rendered row — the boundary is gone on contact . WebMCP runs the code that touches the data and the code that filters what the model receives in the same page . execute is the choke point: // Tier 3 gone → tool unregistered, not just refused controller.abort(); // request_raw_rows disappears from getTools() When raw requests are disabled, we abort the tier's AbortController and request_raw_rows vanishes from the agent's tool list — it cannot call a tool it cannot see. How we built it Next.js 16 static export — no backend, no API routes DuckDB-Wasm for in-tab SQL 14 tools in one Zod-backed registry via document.modelContext.registerTool() Tiers map to AbortController lifetimes : page open → dataset loaded → raw requests permitted Every handler returns an envelope — never throws: { "ok": true, "summary": "...", "data": { ... } } { "ok": false, "error": "too_many_rows", "hint": "Use aggregates or request_raw_rows" } Privacy pipeline: SQL guard → aggregate-only run_query → column redaction → k-anonymity → human gate on raw release. Privacy model, honestly We claim: no server, no upload, provable cell count, explicit release approval. We do not claim: protection against a patient adversary reconstructing rows from many narrow aggregates. That limit is stated openly in the app. Challenges we ran into DuckDB-Wasm inside a static export (no Worker at build time) React Strict Mode double-registering WebMCP tools Observable Plot tooltips on a dark theme Making capability withdrawal visible in the UI — red dot, strikethrough — not just in code Accomplishments that we're proud of A complete pay-gap review with the counter at 0 Permission as tool lifetime , not tool logic One registry serving WebMCP agents, the in-page demo, and manual inspection Judges can verify in DevTools → Network: no request carries your data What we learned Tool descriptions are part of the product — agents read failures and hints. The airlock meter turns an abstract privacy promise into something a judge can glance at. Presentation beats feature lists in a hackathon. What's next for Airlock OPFS session persistence, org-side audit export, AST-tightened SQL guard, query-budget accounting against aggregate reconstruction. Built With data-analytics duckdb model-context-protocol next.js observable-plot openai privacy react sql tailwind-css typescript vercel web-workers webassembly webmcp zod zustand Try it out airlock-webmcp.vercel.app Submitted to The WebMCP Challenge Created by Solo - design, implementation, demo video Stanislav Obrazcoff Like 1 1 person likes this: Share this project: Updates Stanislav Obrazcoff started this project — Sep 01, 2026 01:58 PM EDT 