A real HR system that registers 31 WebMCP tools in the page. The agent reads receipts that were never uploaded, drafts the numbers, and the tools that move money accept no amounts at all. Like 1 Comment 1 Story Updates Role-filtering Inspiration An agent can already read HR data and talk about it sensibly. It cannot finish the job. The last step of most HR work is a number being written down, a salary, a bonus, a reimbursement, and a figure that came out of a language model is not a figure you can pay somebody. So the reading gets automated, the deciding does not, and the gap between them is where the errors live. Dayflow is an Indian HRMS, denominated in rupees and lakh, applying Indian rules: provident fund, professional tax, CGST and SGST on a restaurant bill. So the case for it should be made with Indian numbers. Finding Source 48% of Indian companies have no way to detect travel and expense fraud , because claims are checked by hand. About 55% cannot retrieve past claims at all. Happay, via Economic Times Every ₹1 lost to fraud costs an Indian firm ₹4.00 , and 54% say fraud is rising. LexisNexis India, 2024 India has the worst payroll staffing shortage in Asia Pacific, at 75% of businesses , and employers named missing automation the top cause of payroll error. ADP India, May 2025 Over half of occupational fraud cases involve missing controls or an override of them , median loss $104,000, median 12 months undetected. ACFE, 2026 Then on 21 November 2025 India's labour codes came into force and changed what a salary structure is allowed to look like: wages must be at least half of total remuneration, and anything excluded beyond that gets added back, which moves PF and gratuity. Every CTC split in the country had to be re-checked. This is not the year for a tool that quietly rewrites pay structures. The model is also the wrong component to trust with the arithmetic. Frontier models score between 73.8% and 99.8% on plain numerical addition, then fall to 7.5% when the same problems are restated symbolically, which looks like retrieval rather than rule following ( arXiv 2504.05262 ), and multi digit multiplication is still an open failure case ( arXiv 2510.00184 ). So full autonomy makes this worse, not better. It removes the human control the fraud data says is load bearing, and hands the arithmetic to the part of the stack with the weakest claim on it. A better model does not fix that. A better place to put the human does. The insight came from the WebMCP explainer , in the line about tools running inside the page the human is already looking at. If the tool lives in the page, the proposal can live in the page too, so the agent never has to be the one holding the number. That is why the three tools that move money accept no amounts at all. Not validated amounts. None. There is no numeric parameter anywhere in their schemas, so a model that invented a total has nowhere to put it. Only a tool running inside the document that owns what is displayed can work that way. What it does Dayflow is a working HR management system that registers 31 WebMCP tools inside its own page , so a browser agent can work it beside whoever is signed in. One rule governs everything: the agent drafts, the human commits. human asks in plain language agent reads, and parses the local file the human dropped agent drafts a proposal into the page's own canvas store the proposal renders on screen, old and new values side by side human reads the actual figures and clicks approve the commit tool reads the canvas, not the model Every row below is a real registered tool. Intent Example ask What happens See what the human sees "What am I looking at?" get_page_context returns the live route, the current filter, the rows that survived it, who is selected, and whether a proposal is on screen Drive the interface "Open the roster and pull up Ankush" navigate_to , filter_directory and focus_employee move the human's actual UI Decide leave "Approve Ankush's paid leave" check_leave_coverage simulates the gap read only, then decide_leave stops on an approval dialog before writing Onboard from a CV "Add this candidate" (CV pasted) add_employee_from_description parses the text in the tab and labels every inferred value with how it got there Quote the employer, not the model "What is the meal cap? What are our PF rates?" get_policy and get_salary_model return the written rules, and say plainly when they have fallen back to statutory defaults Draft then commit a salary "Set up 12 LPA for EMP014", then "Save it" propose_salary_structure splits the CTC six ways and draws it on the Salary page. commit_salary_structure takes a reason and a name. No figures Score work, then pay a bonus "Who earned bonus this quarter? Split two lakh" read_contribution_import and get_contribution_scores , where only verified rows score, then propose_bonus_pool divides the human's stated budget on screen and record_bonus_decision commits it. No figures Audit and reimburse a claim "What is on this bill? Check it, then approve it" audit_expense_claim marks up the page with the rule behind every rupee removed. record_expense_decision takes a decision, a reason and a name. No figures, and the parsed claim is then discarded The tool set reflects the session. Anyone signed in gets 8 page context and UI tools plus 3 contribution tools.An admin adds 7 for roster and leave, 7 for bonuses, 3 for salary, 3 for expenses. An anonymous visitor gets nothing, because nothing registers before sign in. Sign out and you can watch the list fall from 31 to 11 live in Chrome's DevTools WebMCP panel, because teardown runs off the AbortSignal the spec provides for it. Drop the sample restaurant bill onto the Expenses page and audit_expense_claim walks the written policy over it line by line. A ₹6,133 claim comes back as ₹1,783 reimbursable, with the rule attached to every rupee removed: Line group Claimed Reimbursable Rule applied Eight food lines ₹2,910 ₹1,200 Spent down in order against the daily meal cap until the cap runs out Three drinks lines ₹2,400 ₹0 Alcohol is not reimbursable, even itemised inside a food bill Service charge ₹531 ₹291 Read as a tip, capped at ten per cent of that day's pre tax food CGST and SGST ₹292 ₹292 Tax passes through untouched Total ₹6,133 ₹1,783 ₹4,350 refused \( 1{,}200 + 291 + 292 = 1{,}783 \) reconciles against the printed total on the bill, so a judge can check the engine by hand instead of taking my word for it. Uncertainty is reported rather than resolved: conference spend is held for review, neither approved nor refused, unless an approved travel request covers those dates, and held amounts are totalled outside the reimbursable figure. What people and agents can do together here that was hard before. The agent can audit a private financialdocument that was never uploaded anywhere, quoting policy at individual lines while the file never leaves the tab. It can commit a financial decision without anyone trusting its arithmetic, because it has no field to put a numberin, so what reaches the database is what was rendered and checked. And it can take over the reading without taking the judgement: a twelve row work export is parsed and reported honestly, including the row that matches nobody, and imported rows arrive as claimed, so an import cannot quietly move the leaderboard that feeds bonus money. How I built it Why the browser was the right place. The explainer names three failures of backend tool integrations: they cut the site's own interface out of the loop, they make you copy the user's state and credentials onto another server, and they make you build a backend to expose what the client already does. HR and finance hit all three, then hit a fourth that no server side tool can solve: some of the data has no URL. A travel claim arrives as a photo of a bill or an export sitting on someone's laptop. Dayflow parses both in the browser, so nothing is uploaded and there is no OCR service in the middle, and the parsed claim lives only in page state, gone once the decision is recorded. Meanwhile get_page_context reports live in memory state no REST endpoint could expose, and the signed in Supabase session is already the credential, so there is no second copy of who the user is to get wrong. Oversight is the point rather than a constraint I designed around: WebMCP lists fully autonomous workflows as a non goal, and given what the fraud data says about control overrides, salaries are the last place you would want an unattended agent. The WebMCP layer. src/lib/webmcp/registry.ts looks for document.modelContext , falls back to the deprecated navigator.modelContext , then provideContext , then a bare array. It calls registerTool per tool with a JSON Schema inputSchema and an execute returning MCP content blocks. Because registerTool is async and rejects, the registry claims each name up front and keeps the promise rather than assuming success. Tools are composed from the session role in one expression, and the returned cleanup calls controller.abort() , which is the whole 31 to 11 behavior. The zero amount commit layer. This is the entire input schema for recording a reimbursement, the moment money actually moves: inputSchema: { type: "object", properties: { decision: { type: "string", enum: ["approve", "return"] }, reason: { type: "string", description: "One line for the record" }, decidedBy: { type: "string", description: "Name to record as the approver" }, }, required: [], additionalProperties: false, } No amount field, and additionalProperties: false makes a stray number invalid rather than ignored. The tool reads the audited claim out of the page's canvas store. commit_salary_structure and record_bonus_decision are built the same way, and between the three of them there is not one numeric parameter. Approval, determinism, enforcement. Every write goes through one shared requireApproval that renders the dialog and resolves to the human's answer. expenseAudit.ts , salaryModel.ts and contributionScore.ts are pure functions, so the model decides when to compute, never what the answer is. Permissions are enforced by row level security calling public.is_admin() , a security definer function reading the caller's own JWT, because withholding a tool is an interface decision, not a defence: the database refuses the same operations whether they arrive through a tool, the app, or a raw client. Stack. React 18, TypeScript, Vite, Tailwind with shadcn/ui, TanStack Query, Supabase for Postgres, auth, RLS and realtime, deployed on Vercel. All employee data is synthetic and the sample bill and CVs were written for the demo. There is also an optional in page agent panel, WebMCP's author provided agent path, which reads the same registry and runs the same descriptors with the visitor's own API key. No key ships in the frontend. WebMCP capability Where it shows up registerTool on the native surface registry.ts , plain imperative API, no wrapper library Legacy and deprecated surfaces navigator.modelContext , then provideContext , then a bare array Async registration, late injection The promise is kept, and a poller republishes if modelContext arrives after mount AbortSignal retraction The only teardown path in the spec, and the mechanism behind 31 falling to 11 additionalProperties: false , annotations Stray amounts are invalid, and readOnlyHint tells reads from writes Live page state and local files as tools State no endpoint could expose, and receipts parsed in the tab Challenges I ran into Registration that silently did nothing. My first registry treated registerTool as fire and forget. It is async and it rejects: on a duplicate name, on a bad schema, and with a NotAllowedError when the tools permission policy is off. My status badge was counting calls I had made, not tools that existed. Counting your own optimism is an easy bug to ship. The surface arrives late, and there is no unregisterTool . Some clients inject document.modelContext only when an agent attaches, well after React has mounted, so my tools registered against nothing and nothing was there to raise an error. A poller now watches for a surface turning up later. Sign out raised the opposite problem, and the spec has no unregister call: retraction is done with an AbortSignal , which turned out to be the better shape, because teardown became a property of the same effect that did the registering. Two days chasing the wrong client, and a type checker passing on nothing. An agentic desktop browser kept reporting "WebMCP not detected" while still answering questions correctly, because it was reading the rendered screen rather than calling my tools; Chrome 151 with chrome://flags/#enable-webmcp-testing injects the real surface. Then npx tsc --noEmit was exiting clean and I believed it, but the root tsconfig.json is solution style, "files": [] plus references , so it was checking exactly zero files. The real command is npx tsc -p tsconfig.app.json --noEmit , and vite build does not typecheck either. Validating the amount was the wrong instinct. My first commit tools took the figure as a parameter and checked it against the proposal, which sounds careful and is not: the number still travelled through the model, and validation only catches what you thought to check. Deleting the field was smaller and much stronger, and the whole project now rests on it. Rule order matters for the same reason: alcohol has to be tested before food, or three pints itemised inside a restaurant bill quietly become a reimbursable meal. Accomplishments that I'm proud of A real HR system rather than a demo shell, with 31 tools on the native surface , verified in Chrome's own DevTools WebMCP panel, and three financial commit tools with no numeric parameters between them , which makes a class of model error structurally impossible instead of merely unlikely. An audit that runs entirely in the tab and reconciles to the printed total, so it can be checked rather than believed. A tool set that visibly reflects the session , falling from 31 to 11 in front of you, with every write gated by one shared approval path and the database independently refusing the same operations underneath. What I learned The spec's non goals shaped this build more than its API did. Once I stopped treating human oversight as a checkpoint to get past and started treating it as the feature, the design got simpler, and the approval dialog went from nuisance to the place the product's promise is kept. Removing a parameter can be a security control, which still surprises me: we usually make software safer by adding validation, and here the strongest guarantee in the application comes from a schema that is missing a field. The page owns what is rendered and the tool runs in the page, so the tool can read the rendered figure and the model never takes custody of it. That option only exists in the browser. I also learned to distrust green ticks that arrive too easily, whether that is a badge counting its own calls or a type checker checking nothing. What's next for Dayflow HRMS: the agent drafts, the human commits Per line provenance, so every rupee in an audit points back to the exact character range in the source file. A toolchange driven header, so the app can show which tools an attached agent currently holds. And a policy editor, so the rules the audit enforces are maintained by HR in the app instead of living in a constant I wrote. Try it out Live at https://hrms-2-virid.vercel.app/ and source, MIT licensed, at https://github.com/BLx-Ankush/HRMS-2 Sign in as Credentials Tools registered Administrator admin@dayflow.com / admin123 31 Employee employee@dayflow.com / employee123 11 Nobody Signed out 0 For the native surface use Chrome 151 or newer: open chrome://flags/#enable-webmcp-testing , set it to Enabled, relaunch, sign in, then open DevTools and go to Application > WebMCP. The header badge turns green and reads "WebMCP live, 31 tools". Call list_employees , then decide_leave to see the approval dialog, then load the sample bill from the samples folder and run audit_expense_claim followed by record_expense_decision . If you would rather not enable a flag, add ?agentpanel=1 for an in page agent that runs the same tools with your own API key. Built With ai-agents browser-agents chrome hr-tech human-in-the-loop india javascript model-context-protocol openai postgresql react row-level-security shadcn-ui supabase tailwindcss tanstack-query typescript vercel vite webmcp Try it out github.com hrms-2-virid.vercel.app Submitted to The WebMCP Challenge Created by I don't have a proper team, so had to do, on my own :) Ankush Kumar Like 1 1 person likes this: Share this project: Updates Ankush Kumar started this project — Aug 30, 2026 07:36 AM EDT 