Faultline is an AI educational app that teaches system design using WebMCP to make agents act like your favorite coworker who can see your work, see the results, and give you help without taking over. Like Comment Story Updates Inspiration Faultline started after a friend quit his job and we began practicing system design interviews together. We could talk through architectures back and forth, but we kept asking the same question: is this actually right? I wanted a better way to practice than negotiating with an human/LLM for an answer. I wanted a game where you make a design decision and find out whether it works. What it does Faultline is a systems design/interview prep game. Fvery level gives you a problem, requirements, a workload, and a set of components; you design the system, and the simulator tells you the results. With WebMCP, an agent can join the live session, inspect the current design, and point out relevant parts of the canvas. Designed to act like another engineer in the room, the agent will help with questions but won't fully take over. Can also act to be interviewed where the agent will walk through realistic follow ups you might hear in a system design round. How we built it I started with the game itself. Parts like letting player build freely, simulator being the source of truth, and providing the agent with structured evidence from the components as opposed to the answer. Each level has its own rules, including what components are available, the performance of the components, and the requirements. For the agents I needed to decided for most states of the game what the agent might need to reasonable answer a question, and I did so through dynamically exposing tools, keeping data as fresh as possible, and intent routing for most common commands for reliable play. Challenges we ran into The hardest part was keeping the agent reliable while a player rapidly changes an architecture. It needs the most up to date info for every call, but resending every detail was too slow. The app needed to only be frustrating with the challenges, so the agent experience for help needed to be fast just as much as it needed high quality responses. Getting the right current context to the agent efficiently and providing it with only the tools necessary for the state took a lot of fiddling around with. Accomplishments that we're proud of I am proud of how the agents acts. I've had friends play with it, were unable to beat the level first couple tries and begrudgingly gave into using the coach, where they were surprised with the interactions. It really keeps you as the focus as just acts as a background tool so that you don't get stuck forever. This is best shown in the interview tool that asks follow up questions to let users practice the back and forths after designing the solution by using specific interviewer tools and keeping architecture facts straight as info changes. What we learned This was my first time working with WebMCP, and I learned a lot about building for external agents inside a app. In particular, I learned more about tool routing, intent routing, and evaluations for checking whether an agent picks the best tool for the moment. Was also first time I tried to make like an app with a wide spread audience over to fill specific niches/needs. What's next for Faultline I would like to make it a daily game where you do one game a day just to keep yourself sharp. I would also like to keep expanding the coach's toolset and personality. I think during interview process if it could change the rules of the simulation and make you live build to solve a question would be pretty interesting and fun. Third Party Dependencies Supabase Auth and Postgres, through @supabase/supabase-js and @supabase/ssr, for optional account identity, GitHub OAuth linking, official attempts, verified submissions, and leaderboards. GitHub OAuth, used only as an optional identity provider. Vercel, used to host and deploy the live application. Open source dependencies including Next.js, React, React Flow, and related packages. Google Fonts via next/font/google for the Space Mono typeface. Built With agents edtech next.js react supabase typescript vercel webmcp Try it out syslab-9ys7.vercel.app Submitted to The WebMCP Challenge Created by Aidan Costello Like Share this project: Updates Aidan Costello started this project — Sep 03, 2026 11:47 PM EDT 