Professional motion graphics with just a single prompt. Agentic motion graphics that can be easily generated and inserted into timelines in the video editor of your choice. Like 1 Comment Story Updates Inspiration I've been a motion graphics artist my entire career and somethings are just extremely painful. I wanted to dive into the latest tools like html-in-canvas, webgpu & webmcp to create custom, themed graphics on the fly with high end shaders and motion. What it does Generates real 4k motion graphics with alpha and overlay to use in the video editor of your choice. How we built it I wasn't happy with the tech choices of any of the existing options in this space, so I wanted something that had real webgpu power behind it. I built it by iterating with my agents while using it to generate real motion graphics for the Syntax Youtube. Presets and formats were created as needed and I'm still building out the roster. Challenges we ran into Quality, taste and general AI slop aesthetics. A ton of work was done on our system for generating graphics so that way when we create new ones I don't have to worry about the aesthetic reading as too AI or ugly. Accomplishments that we're proud of A version that works entirely in browser (although it's better locally with ffmpeg). High end shaders. 1:1 parity between the ui, json authoring and webmcp. A 2d and 3d canvas with real depth of field effects as seen here https://gfx.computer/p/website-filmed What we learned I can replace my motion graphics tools and have a workflow that allows me to never leave DaVinci Resolve just by connecting DaVinci MCP to WebMCP gfx.computer and create all graphics without leaving my resolve. What's next for GFX Computer More presets, more shaders, better 3d model support. Built With html-in-canvas svelte typegpu webgpu Try it out gfx.computer Submitted to The WebMCP Challenge Created by Scott Tolinski Like 1 1 person likes this: Share this project: Updates Scott Tolinski started this project — Sep 03, 2026 12:30 PM EDT 