Banking where the AI does the homework and you keep the pen: an agent compares, checks eligibility, and applies inside your session, on your page but only a human can hit submit Like Comment Story Updates Inspiration Every "agent browses the web" demo we'd seen worked against the page screenshotting, scraping the DOM, guessing which button to click. Meanwhile, the tasks people actually want help with (like picking a credit card) depend on private, session-bound data an outside agent can't see: your income, your credit score, what you already hold. WebMCP flips the model the page itself tells the agent what it can do. We wanted to build the strongest possible case for that flip: a bank, where the data is personal, the answers must be grounded, and the final action is too consequential to leave to an AI. What it does Meridian Bank is a retail-banking portal where an AI agent works inside your authenticated browser tab through 15 WebMCP tools the page registers: Search & compare — full terms sheets for 21 products across 8 categories, with a side-by-side comparison matrix Grounded recommendations check_eligibility runs the bank's real rules engine against your profile and returns per-requirement verdicts (ELIGIBLE / NOT_ELIGIBLE / REVIEW_REQUIRED) with reasons and alternative products the agent recommends from the same source of truth the bank uses Visual co-presence highlight_differences lets the agent light up the exact rows of the compare table that drove its recommendation and dim the rest, with its note shown above the table. The agent literally points at the page Acting on your behalf it assembles a multi-product application basket, picks card designs, applies your loyalty offer, and the UI updates live as it works Human-in-the-loop by construction submit_application never submits. It opens an in-app approval dialog with the full basket summary and blocks until the human clicks Approve or Reject. Even a misbehaving agent cannot submit, because the guardrail lives in the tool's implementation, not in a prompt Tool availability mirrors the session: 3 tools logged out, 15 logged in the browser's tool list itself reflects auth state. Try it: https://meridian-bank-client-production.up.railway.app in Chrome 149+ with chrome://flags/#enable-webmcp-testing enabled. How we built it The app is built with Wasp (React + Express + Prisma/Postgres), deployed on Railway. Every tool is registered through the browser's WebMCP API: document.modelContext.registerTool({ name: "check_eligibility", description: "Check whether the user qualifies for a product…", inputSchema: { /* JSON Schema / }, execute: async (input) => { / … */ }, }); …via a small React hook that handles register/unregister on mount and auth gating with an enabled flag. Each tool's execute delegates to the same typed RPC operations the UI uses, so Wasp's automatic query invalidation makes the interface update live after every agent action — zero extra wiring. The eligibility engine is a pure, fully unit-tested module (16 tests); the approval flow is a promise that only resolves when a human clicks a button. We tested with Claude connected over chrome-devtools-mcp in a WebMCP-flagged Chrome. Challenges we ran into React lifecycle vs. browser API. Tools registered from React must survive StrictMode double-mounting and never close over stale component state every execute reads through the RPC layer instead of captured props, and aborted registrations had to be handled as expected lifecycle noise rather than errors. Designing for a non-human user. Tool descriptions are UX writing where the "user" is a model. Getting the agent to reliably check eligibility before recommending and to never submit unprompted — came down to careful naming, descriptions, structured error messages, and returning effect fields that tell the agent what just changed on screen. Making approval un-bypassable. The tempting version is "tell the agent to ask first." The robust version is a tool whose result the agent can't have until a human acts designing that blocking flow (with a timeout, and honest reporting of rejected vs timed out) was the most interesting part. Accomplishments that we're proud of A structural safety guarantee, not a prompted one: no sequence of agent calls can submit an application without a human click and the agent gets an honest account of what the human decided. The agent explains itself in the page: highlight_differences turned "trust me, pick the Voyager" into a compare table where the decisive rows are glowing and everything else is dimmed. A complete, working product 21 products, a real eligibility engine, offers, applications history live on the open web, where the full three-prompt demo (compare → apply → approve) runs end-to-end against the deployed site. What we learned The biggest lesson: safety and UX come from tool design, not prompt engineering. A well-shaped tool result (verdicts with reasons, an effect field describing what changed) steers an agent better than any system prompt. We also learned that exposing state-reading tools (get_compare_list, get_my_holdings) matters as much as actions "which of these two?" only works because the agent can see what the human is looking at. And practically: WebMCP is genuinely host-agnostic it's a client-side browser API, so the same tools worked identically on localhost and on Railway. What's next for Meridian Bank — a WebMCP banking demo Streaming progress into the page while the agent works, per-tool scopes the user can grant and revoke (a "permissions drawer" for agents), and multi-tab flows imagine the agent comparing your bank's offer against another site's, with both pages exposing tools to the same assistant. Built With chrome express.js mcp node.js postgresql prisma railway react tailwindcss typescript vite vitest wasp webmcp zustand Try it out meridian-bank-client-production.up.railway.app railway.com github.com www.loom.com Submitted to The WebMCP Challenge Created by Aniket Kumar Like Share this project: Updates Aniket Kumar started this project — Sep 03, 2026 02:10 PM EDT 