Human-led hiring, agent-powered execution, one shared pipeline. Like Comment Story Updates Inspiration Recruiting is a multi-step process involving recruiters, candidates, hiring managers, interviewers, and increasingly, AI assistants. However, people and agents usually interact with separate systems. A human may use a recruiting dashboard while an agent relies on screen scraping, custom APIs, or incomplete information. We wanted to explore what happens when a recruiting application becomes a shared workspace for both people and agents. This inspired PipelineOS : a WebMCP-powered recruiting platform where humans and agents can discover capabilities, perform structured actions, collaborate on decisions, and observe the same live workflow. The demo uses an Indian-context recruiting dataset with candidates such as Ananya Sharma, Rohan Mehta, Kavya Iyer, and Meera Nair, making the experience feel relevant to our target users and region. What it does PipelineOS models the complete hiring lifecycle: Job requisition creation Candidate search and comparison Application submission Explainable candidate screening Interview availability and scheduling Interview feedback Offer generation and response Background checks Benefits enrollment Onboarding checklists Workflow status and activity tracking The Recruiter Dashboard presents applications in a Kanban board across stages such as Applied, Screened, Interviewing, Offer Sent, Offer Accepted, Onboarding, and Rejected. The important difference is that the same operations are available to both the human interface and an AI agent through WebMCP. Why this is a strong fit for WebMCP Recruiting has structured, multi-step actions that agents need to discover and execute reliably. Instead of asking an agent to interpret buttons or scrape a page, PipelineOS exposes named tools with typed input schemas, descriptions, permissions, and output contracts. An agent can search candidates, read workflow status, prepare interview coordination, and stage onboarding actions using the same operation surface used by the human UI. How it creates a better user experience PipelineOS creates one shared source of truth: Human actions and agent actions update the same recruiting state. Candidates appear in the same Kanban board regardless of who performed the action. Recruiters can see agent activity in the same audit feed as human activity. Agents can handle repetitive research and coordination work. Humans remain in control of consequential decisions. Every operation has a structured result or error instead of an ambiguous UI interaction. This means users do not have to copy information between an AI assistant, spreadsheets, email, and an applicant tracking system. What people and agents can do together Before WebMCP, an agent could potentially read a recruiting page but could not reliably discover or invoke the same application actions as a human. With PipelineOS: A recruiter can ask ChatGPT to find strong backend candidates. ChatGPT can use the page’s WebMCP tools to search the candidate database. The recruiter can review the result in the same PipelineOS workspace. An agent can prepare an onboarding plan without applying it. A human can review the proposed changes, approve them, and commit them. The resulting state change appears in the Kanban and activity feed for everyone. This makes it possible for agents to support hiring operations without giving them unchecked control over sensitive or irreversible actions. How we built it PipelineOS is built as a React and TypeScript web application with an Express server. The WebMCP integration is implemented in src/lib/webmcp.ts . On application startup, PipelineOS registers the canonical operation registry with: document.modelContext.registerTool({ name, description, inputSchema, execute, annotations }); The application registers 32 recruiting operations from one shared OPERATION_REGISTRY . The registry is also used by: Server-side validation The React UI WebMCP tool registration Documentation pages Capability discovery Approval-policy enforcement Every WebMCP execute callback routes through the same OperationClient used by the UI. The request then passes through: The canonical HTTP API Actor and capability resolution Input validation Authorization and resource-scope checks The shared OperationService Domain rules and lifecycle validation The repository transaction The activity/audit log State synchronization back to the UI There is no separate WebMCP-only business logic path. For sensitive workflows, PipelineOS uses a plan → approve → commit model: plan_operation ↓ human approval card ↓ approve_operation_plan ↓ commit_operation_plan Agents can stage an action, but they cannot approve their own plans. This is enforced server-side. The application also supports: Native document.modelContext registration A navigator-based compatibility adapter A development registry for local testing Structured JSON schemas Actor-scoped permissions Idempotency and stale-state protection Revision-based synchronization Server-sent events A shared activity feed Deterministic synthetic demo data In-memory and Firestore persistence options Challenges we ran into The biggest challenge was making the human and agent interfaces genuinely share the same behavior instead of simply exposing a second API. We had to ensure that: WebMCP calls and UI clicks use the same operation service. Operations validate and authorize inputs consistently. Failed mutations do not partially update state. Agent permissions are narrower than human permissions. Approval requirements are enforced by the server rather than only described in tool text. Activity entries do not expose private resume data, tokens, consent evidence, or sensitive identifiers. Multiple browser views stay synchronized after an agent call. Repeated requests do not create duplicate applications, interviews, offers, or onboarding records. The demo remains deterministic and easy to reset during judging. Authentication and hosted access were another challenge because the live application needs to be accessible to judges while still protecting recruiter, candidate, and hiring-manager views. Accomplishments that we're proud of We are proud that PipelineOS is more than a WebMCP proof of concept. It is a complete recruiting workflow with a real product experience around the tools. Our main accomplishments include: A complete multi-role recruiting application 32 shared WebMCP operations Native document.modelContext.registerTool integration One operation path for humans and agents A populated Indian-context demo Kanban with candidates across multiple lifecycle stages A shared live activity feed for human and agent actions Explainable, deterministic candidate scoring Human approval cards for consequential agent workflows Server-enforced agent safety rules Actor-scoped authorization and resource permissions Idempotency and atomic state changes Candidate, recruiter, and hiring-manager experiences Documentation that displays the live WebMCP operation registry A deterministic reset flow suitable for demos and judging The most important accomplishment is that an agent can participate in the workflow without becoming an uncontrolled automation layer. It can help with research and preparation, while the human remains responsible for the final consequential action. What we learned We learned that exposing tools is only one part of building an agent-ready application. The surrounding product architecture is equally important. We learned that: Tool descriptions must explain when an operation should be used and what it returns. Input and output schemas make agent behavior more reliable. Agent permissions must be enforced at the server boundary. Human approval should be represented as a real stateful workflow, not just a confirmation message. A shared audit trail is essential when humans and agents work together. Agents need safe read-only discovery tools before they can perform useful actions. The same operation must produce the same result whether it comes from a button, WebMCP, or an MCP client. Deterministic demo data makes an agent workflow much easier to demonstrate and evaluate. WebMCP is most valuable when it changes the interaction model of the application, rather than being added as a thin wrapper around an existing API. What's next for PipelineOS The next step is to connect PipelineOS to durable, production recruiting systems while keeping the same operation registry and WebMCP interface. Planned improvements include: Greenhouse, Lever, and HRIS integrations Durable multi-tenant storage by default Production-grade authentication for recruiters, candidates, and agent connectors Per-organization agent capabilities and approval policies Candidate consent and communication workflows Calendar and email integrations More detailed fairness and compliance reporting Agent-assisted bottleneck and hiring-funnel analysis Candidate-side personal agents Cross-organization referral workflows A marketplace of specialized recruiting agents The long-term goal is for PipelineOS to become a shared recruiting workspace where people and multiple specialized agents can collaborate safely, transparently, and with clear human accountability. Built With firebase firestore node.js react render tailwind typescript vitest webmcp Try it out pipelineos-lkol.onrender.com github.com Submitted to The WebMCP Challenge Created by I designed and built PipelineOS end to end as an individual contributor. I created the recruiting workflow, React interface, Express backend, shared TypeScript domain models, and the deterministic Indian-context demo dataset. I implemented the WebMCP integration using document.modelContext.registerTool, including the shared 32-operation registry, typed schemas, tool execution callbacks, capability discovery, and the fallback registration layer. I connected WebMCP calls and human UI actions to the same OperationClient, OperationService, authorization layer, repository, synchronization system, and activity feed. I also built the human-in-the-loop plan → approve → commit workflow, actor-scoped permissions, structured errors, idempotency handling, audit logging, Firebase authentication, optional Firestore persistence, MCP support, and deployment configuration. Finally, I created the Kanban-based recruiter experience, candidate and hiring-manager views, documentation screen, guided tour, WebMCP demo flow, README, deployment instructions, and comprehensive automated tests covering the core workflow, WebMCP integration, authorization, synchronization, and approval safety. Harshavardhan Bajoria Product Manager - AI & Innovation @Unstop | Knight @LeetCode | Microsoft Certified x8 | Oracle Certified x5 | Google Certified x5 Like Share this project: Updates Harshavardhan Bajoria started this project — Sep 04, 2026 03:59 AM EDT 