WebMCP commerce tools assume a US checkout. Tendero hands an AI agent the eleven tools a Colombian sale needs — DIAN, VAT-by-destination, freight, Wompi — and closes only after a human's click. Like Comment Story Updates Tendero is a working WebMCP storefront for a Colombian corner store — Surtitienda La Milagrosa , Manrique, Medellín. It hands an AI agent the eleven tools a Colombian sale actually needs via document.modelContext.registerTool , and it closes the sale only in Wompi sandbox and only after a human's one-click authorization the agent structurally cannot bypass. Why this is a strong fit for WebMCP The default commerce tool set ( search_products / add_to_cart / checkout ) quietly exports US assumptions — a prepaid card, a street address, a self-serve checkout. A Colombian sale is none of those, and the correct action depends on local rules the agent cannot infer and only the page knows: Cash on delivery is the dominant rail — with a collection ceiling, partial carrier coverage, and towns no carrier will reach. VAT depends on the destination department — the same basket is VAT-excluded in Amazonas and San Andrés. Colombia has four VAT treatments plus consumption tax; exento and excluido differ in law. A statutory 5-business-day right of withdrawal , against the real holiday calendar. An e-invoice is rejected by DIAN without a valid document type and a correct NIT check digit. How it creates a better UX The surface matches what's possible: an agent on a clean page sees 4 tools, not 11, and grows the surface 4 → 7 → 11 as the cart fills and a destination is set. Tools rewrite their own descriptions from page state — cash on delivery becomes "unavailable: Leticia has only air access" — firing toolchange so the agent re-reads the rules. Refusals are recovery-shaped (the NIT check digit that should have been 8). Every execute() calls the same render the human buttons call, so the person sees the machine work . What people and agents can do together The agent assembles the order and the page supplies the law — VAT treatment per line, cash-on-delivery reachability, the withdrawal deadline, whether the buyer's document survives e-invoicing. Then the split that makes it collaboration, not automation: a human's one-click authorization seals the sale; only then can the agent open the Wompi checkout and confirm the payment (sandbox — no real money). The human authorizes; the agent executes. How we built it (WebMCP implementation) 11 tools , each document.modelContext.registerTool({ name, description, inputSchema, execute }) with full JSON Schema. Progressive disclosure in three rungs , gated on page state; descriptions computed from state so a change forces genuine re-registration and a real toolchange event. MCP-shaped responses ( content[0].text + structuredContent ); discriminate annotations ( readOnlyHint , idempotentHint , destructiveHint , untrustedContentHint ); host-portable teardown. No backend at runtime — static files; the Colombian rule engine runs in the page , with a Python reference implementation pinned by parity tests. CI: ruff, mypy --strict , pytest ( 99% coverage ), and a headless harness that drives the real page with a mock modelContext and asserts an agent can grow the surface and close the sale by itself. Verified live 4 → 7 → 11 tools · cheapest freight to Leticia $86,435 · total $110,835 with VAT $0 (Amazonas excluded) · NIT 900123456-0 → invalid, check digit should be 8 · payment closes APROBADA in sandbox · zero console errors. What's next Colombia is the instance, not the point — swap the rule module for Brazil (NF-e), Mexico (CFDI), or India (GSTIN). MIT-licensed; adoption is one static file and a <script> tag. Built With css document.modelcontext github github-actions html javascript python webmcp wompi Try it out josenobile.github.io github.com Submitted to The WebMCP Challenge Created by Sole builder — I designed and built Tendero end to end: the 11-tool WebMCP surface with three-rung progressive disclosure (4→7→11) and tool descriptions that rewrite themselves from page state; the in-page Colombian rule engine (DIAN document + NIT check-digit validation, VAT by destination across Colombia's four treatments, quoted freight and cash-on-delivery reachability, the 5-business-day right of withdrawal) with a Python reference kept to parity by tests; the human-authorizes / agent-executes Wompi-sandbox payment behind three gates; the CI harness (ruff, mypy --strict, pytest 99%, a headless agent-surface test); and the GitHub Pages deploy. AI coding assistants (Claude Code, Codex) were used as tooling, as the rules permit. Jose Nobile Entrepreneur & software engineer, 20+ yrs. I build payment systems, decompose monoliths, harden security & ship AI to production. Like Share this project: Updates Jose Nobile started this project — Sep 03, 2026 12:05 PM EDT 